Document Gitlab upgrade instructions (#3608) (#3627)
DataBiosphere/azul: OPERATOR.rst

Upgrading GitLab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Operators must check for updates to the `GitLab Docker image`_ and the

Reviewer: A quicker way to check for this https://gitlab.dev.singlecell.gi.ucsc.edu/help

Author: Wanted to reference the docker image release page that way it's explicit where to find the new image/what the new image is.

Reviewer: Nevertheless, please incorporate this in as a way of short-circuiting. There is no point in comparing the docker page against the TF source if the help page indicates that Gitlab is up-to-date.

Author: So to confirm, you want the operators to check that the GitLab Instance can be updated using the `/help` endpoint, and inspect if there are updates to the GitLab Runners by comparing the TF file to the docker release page?

Reviewer: I want them to check daily (since it's so easy) for updates using /help and if that indicates that updates are available, install the latest version of Gitlab and the latest compatible version of the runner.

Upgrading GitLab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Operators must check for updates to GitLab on a daily basis. Updates to Gitlab
can be quickly checked at the ``/help`` endpoint for `GitLab dev`_ and
`GitLab prod`_. If there are updates available, find the new release for the
`GitLab Docker image`_ and update the `Gitlab Terraform`_ file. When updating
the GitLab instance check if there are applicable updates to the
`GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process, check the applicable
`GitLab release notes`_ for any upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
multiple Gitlab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

Before any changes are applied, have the lead check for any running
``background migrations`` on the GitLab instances. Once all background
migrations are complete, stop the instance (do not terminate) and create a

> snapshot of its EBS volume.

Author: added a section to the last paragraph about when to check for background migrations.

Edit ``terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py``, updating the versions of
the docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    _select dev.gitlab
    cd terraform/gitlab
    make

The GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes or so. If it takes
substantially longer, contact the lead. Once the ``dev`` GitLab instance has
been successfully updated, the same changes need to be applied to the ``prod``
GitLab instance. Once both instances are successfully updated, file a PR with
the changes against the ``develop`` branch and request review from the lead.

> It may be necessary to set ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop`` to work around

Reviewer 2: ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=prod`` is needed for `prod`, even though the changes are based on `develop`.

Upgrading GitLab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Operators must check for updates to the GitLab instances and the GitLab Runners

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operators must check for updates to GitLab 
```

> on a daily basis. Updates to the Gitlab instance can be quickly checked at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on a daily basis. Updates to Gitlab can be quickly checked at the
```

Using the word "instance" here is confusing. Primarily, we're looking for updates to the webapp and runner images, not the instance. We have to update the instance if either them are updated.

``/help`` endpoint for `GitLab dev`_ and `GitLab prod`_. If there are updates

> available, find the new release for the `GitLab Docker Image`_ and update the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available, find the new release for the `GitLab Docker image`_ and update the
```

Google "proper noun"

> the GitLab instance check if there are applicable updates to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the GitLab instance, check if there are applicable updates to the
```

> `Gitlab terraform`_ file. When updating the GitLab instance check if there are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Gitlab Terraform`_ file. When updating the GitLab instance check if there are
```

> `GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process check the applicable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process check the 
```

> applicable updates to the `GitLab Runner image`_. Before starting the update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applicable updates to the `GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update
```

> `GitLab release notes`_ for any upgrading instructions. When upgrading across

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GitLab release notes`_ for upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
```

> process check applicable `GitLab release notes`_ for any upgrading instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
process, check the applicable `GitLab release notes`_ for any upgrading instructions.
```

> multiple Gitlab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple GitLab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.
```

> When upgrading across multiple Gitlab versions follow a supported GitLab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading across multiple Gitlab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab
```

> Before any changes are applied, ensure that the current branch selected is

Reviewer: The mention of "current branch" precedes the mention of the PR so it's out of order. 

Nit: Branches are checked out, not selected.

Before any changes are applied, have the lead check for any running
``background migrations`` on the GitLab instances, if there are no migrations
in progress, stop the instance (do not terminate) and create a snapshot of its

> EBS volume.

Reviewer: Confusing. This sound like the only the snapshotting is conditional upon the existence of background migrations. In fact, the entire upgrade is. Structure this so that checking the conditions are the first steps in the a enumerated list and describe each branch in the decision tree. Think of this as a [flow chart](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flowchart) described in plain English.

the docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    _select dev.gitlab
    cd terraform/gitlab
    make

The GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes or so. If it takes
substantially longer, contact the lead. When the GitLab endpoint is online have
the lead check for any running ``background migrations``. Once the ``dev``
GitLab instance has been successfully updated, the same changes need to be

> applied to the ``prod`` GitLab instance. Once both instances are successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applied to the ``prod`` GitLab instance. Once both instances have been successfully
```

updated, file a PR with the changes against the ``develop`` branch and request
review from the lead.

> It may be necessary to set ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=prod`` to work around

Reviewer 2: Not quite right, the previous instructions were correct for updating `dev`, they just weren't correct for `prod`:
```suggestion
It may be necessary to set ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME`` to the name of the targeted deployment (``dev`` or ``prod``) to work around
```

Author: gotcha, I did not squash the commits, I want the fixups that Hannes requested to be easier to find.

> deployment (``dev`` or ``prod``) to work around.

Reviewer 2: Oops, didn't mean for the end of this sentence to be deleted.
```suggestion
deployment (``dev`` or ``prod``) to work around ``check_branch``.
```

Upgrading GitLab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Operators must check for updates to GitLab on a daily basis. Updates to Gitlab
can be quickly checked at the ``/help`` endpoint for `GitLab dev`_ and

> `GitLab prod`_. If there are updates available, find the new release for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GitLab prod`_. If there are updates available, find the new release of the
```

`GitLab Docker image`_ and update the `Gitlab Terraform`_ file. When updating
the GitLab instance, check if there are applicable updates to the
`GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process check the
`GitLab release notes`_ for upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
multiple GitLab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

Before any changes are applied, checkout a new branch with `github/develop` as
its start-point, run::

	git fetch github

> 	git checkout -b gitlab/<yyy-mm-dd> github/develop

Reviewer: Developers should know how to create a branch from `develop` so this is overly verbose. Besides, the origin name (`github` in your case may be different for each developer. Be less detailed, but mention the branch name.

Author: @hannes-ucsc 
the origin name should not be different as we standardized it for operators. 
https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/blob/develop/OPERATOR.rst#getting-started-as-operator

Reviewer: Got it. Might still be more concise to say "Create a branch called ... from `develop`." There still is an imbalance here between sections that state the obvious and sections that elide the not-so-obvious.

BTW, you don't need to @-mention me in replies. I get notified and see them regardless.

Reviewer: > Should we expect developers to keep branches updated as part of their development workflows?

Yes. Keeping up with the remote is an obvious and therefore implied requirement. Everything breaks if developers or operators use stale branches.

Stop the GitLab EC2 instance (do not terminate), and create a snapshot of its

> EBS volume.

Reviewer: This, on the other hand, is not detailed enough. The snapshot should be tagged with an `owner` and have a specific name. Document the steps needed to do this.

Author: I added a script to help do this, creating multiple snapshots with tags and descriptions opens up room for operator errors. As the script is now it should add the tags, track the operator who created the snapshots, date-stamp the description to track the dates.

Currently it looks like operators are not manually adding tags (understandable as it's not documented, and easy to overlook) and the deletion daemon is deleting them.

Author: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#SnapshotDetails:snapshotId=snap-06f05105a554d3557
for what the snapshot looks like.

FYI it looks like the `deployment_stage` is currently used when naming the gitlab instance, rather than `gitlab-azul-dev`, it's just called `gitlab-azul` not sure if this is intentional.

Author: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/v2/home?region=us-east-1#SnapshotDetails:snapshotId=snap-06f05105a554d3557 

This is what the script output looks like, is the deployment stage name intentionally removed from `azul-gitlab`? I would expect it to follow other infra naming conventions that we have in place where the stage is also visible e.g. `azul-gitlab-dev`

Reviewer: No. The name should include the stage name.

Author: Added fixme for this https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/issues/3820

Author: Removed fixme for #3820, as the issue is closed.

Edit ``terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py``, updating the versions of
the docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    _select dev.gitlab
    cd terraform/gitlab

>     make

Reviewer: Don't you need to override the branch check here?

Author: Moved the section up

The GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes or so. If it takes

> substantially longer, contact the lead. When the GitLab endpoint is online have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
substantially longer, contact the lead. When the GitLab endpoint is online, have
```

> the lead check for any running ``background migrations``. Once the ``dev``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the lead confirm that any background migrations triggered by the upgrade have finished. Once the ``dev``
```

Add they are to be found under *Admin Area* — *Monitoring* — *Background Migrations*

GitLab instance has been successfully updated, the same changes need to be
applied to the ``prod`` GitLab instance. Once both instances have been
successfully updated, file a PR with the changes against the ``develop`` branch
and request review from the lead.

> It may be necessary to set ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME`` to the name of the targeted

Reviewer: Ahh, this need to be mentioned earlier.

Upgrading GitLab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Operators must check for updates to GitLab on a daily basis. Updates to Gitlab
can be quickly checked at the ``/help`` endpoint for `GitLab dev`_ and
`GitLab prod`_. If there are updates available, find the new release of the
`GitLab Docker image`_ and update the `Gitlab Terraform`_ file. When updating
the GitLab instance, check if there are applicable updates to the
`GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process check the
`GitLab release notes`_ for upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
multiple GitLab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

> Before any changes are applied, source the appropriate ``gitlab`` environment

Author: Modified this section to be a block of commands for the operator to follow. Seemed easier to follower as a reader.

```
Index: OPERATOR.rst
IDEA additional info:
Subsystem: com.intellij.openapi.diff.impl.patch.CharsetEP
<+>UTF-8
===================================================================
diff --git a/OPERATOR.rst b/OPERATOR.rst
--- a/OPERATOR.rst	(revision 8dc92648d658f558a51f8953a7c9707de7fd473c)
+++ b/OPERATOR.rst	(date 1644879234071)
@@ -182,9 +182,11 @@
 `GitLab release notes`_ for upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
 multiple GitLab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.
 
-Before any changes are applied, source the appropriate ``gitlab`` environment
-file, fetch remote repositories, then create a new branch called
-``gitlab/<yyy-mm-dd>``  with ``github/develop`` as its start-point.
+Before any changes are applied, run::
+
+	git fetch -all
+	git checkout -b gitlab/<yyy-mm-dd> github/develop
+	_select dev.gitlab
 
 Stop the GitLab EC2 instance (do not terminate it), and create a snapshot of its
 EBS volume. To create a snapshot, run::
```

file, fetch remote repositories, then create a new branch called
``gitlab/<yyy-mm-dd>``  with ``github/develop`` as its start-point.

Stop the GitLab EC2 instance (do not terminate), and create a snapshot of its
EBS volume. To easily create a snapshot run::

> 	python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py

Reviewer: With the component selected or the corresponding main deployment?

Author: I'm confused about the term `component` here. I updated the block to specify that `_select gitlab.dev` should be ran before the script is called.

Because both the `prod` and `dev` instance of gitlab have the same name (`azul-gitlab`),  If the operator has `dev`, `sandbox`, or `dev.gitlab` selected, the snapshots for the dev instance are created.

I added this fixup https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/issues/3820#issuecomment-1029510044

Reviewer: https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul#9-continuous-deployment-and-integration defines that term. We'll stick with the current names. I closed #3820.

Author: I added some prerequisite commands that the operator has to follow. 
https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/pull/3627#discussion_r806309129

The last thing they do it `_select` the environment file for the applicable GitLab subcomponent.
I updated the condition of the require within the script as well, so a main deployment cannot be selected.

It may take some time for the snapshot of the volumes to complete, make sure
the ``Snapshot status`` shows ``completed`` before proceeding with any changes.
Edit ``terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py``, updating the versions of
the docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    _select dev.gitlab
    cd terraform/gitlab
    make

It may be necessary to set ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME`` to the name of the targeted
deployment (``dev`` or ``prod``) to work around ``check_branch``.

The GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes or so. If it takes
substantially longer, contact the lead. When the GitLab endpoint is online, have
the lead confirm that any background migrations triggered by the upgrade have
finished. Background migrations can be found under

> ``Admin Area — Monitoring — Background Migrations``  Once the ``dev`` GitLab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Admin Area — Monitoring — Background Migrations``.

Once the ``dev`` GitLab
```

> ``Admin Area — Monitoring — Background Migrations``  Once the ``dev`` GitLab

Author: had to drop the double backticks to get the italics.

instance has been successfully updated, the same changes need to be applied to

> the ``prod`` GitLab instance. Once both instances have been successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``prod`` instance. Once both instances have been successfully
```

updated, file a PR with the changes against the ``develop`` branch and request
review from the lead.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Before any changes are applied, run::

	git fetch -all
	git checkout -b gitlab/yyyy-mm-dd github/develop
	_select dev.gitlab

Use the following script to create a snapshot of the storage volume attached to
the GitLab instance. The script will stop (NOT terminate) the instance, and
create a properly tagged snapshot of the GitLab EBS volume. Run::

	python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py

Once the snapshot is complete, edit the `GitLab Terraform`_ file, updating the
version of the docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop make -C terraform/gitlab

.. _GitLab Terraform: https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/blob/develop/terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py#L1243

The new GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes. If it takes
longer, contact the lead. When the GitLab web app is online, have the lead
confirm that any background migrations triggered by the upgrade have finished.
Background migrations can be found under *Admin Area — Monitoring — Background
Migrations*.

Once the ``dev`` GitLab instance has been successfully updated, the same

> changes need to be applied to the ``prod`` instance. The same branch can be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes need to be applied to the ``prod`` instance. Use the same branch ```

to update the ``prod`` deployment, however the ``prod.gitlab`` component must be

> selected and ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=prod`` must be used on the make target. Once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
selected and ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=prod`` must be used in the `make` invocation. Once
```

`GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process, check the
`GitLab release notes`_ for upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
multiple GitLab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

.. _GitLab dev: https://gitlab.dev.singlecell.gi.ucsc.edu/help
.. _GitLab prod: https://gitlab.azul.data.humancellatlas.org/help
.. _GitLab Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-ce/tags
.. _GitLab runner image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-runner/tags
.. _GitLab release notes: https://about.gitlab.com/releases/categories/releases/
.. _GitLab Terraform: https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/blob/develop/terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py#L1064
.. _upgrade path: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/update/index.html#upgrade-paths

Before any changes are applied, run::

	git fetch -all
	git checkout -b gitlab/yyy-mm-dd github/develop
	_select dev.gitlab

Use the following script to create snapshots of the storage volumes attached to
the GitLab instance. The script will shutdown (NOT terminate) the instance, and
create snapshots with resource tags. Run::

	python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py

> It may take some time for the snapshots of the volumes to complete, the script

Author: I had it backing up the root volume too, I turned it off in the script and updated the section.

will wait up to 10 minutes. If the script exits while waiting for the snapshot
to complete, use the *EC2 Snapshots* page within the AWS Console to monitor the

> progress. Once the snapshots are complete, edit ``terraform/gitlab/gitlab

Author: It does not look like the waiter can wait forever, but I should be able to increase the number of max_attempts from the default 40 to 120. (15 second delay * 120 attempts = 1800 seconds (30min)). 

https://github.com/boto/botocore/blob/b3a6c43c5c42dd52ca1da1482e4587ee5fb31f57/botocore/waiter.py#L315

`GitLab prod`_. If updates are available, find the new release of the
`GitLab Docker image`_ and update the `Gitlab Terraform`_ file. When updating
the GitLab instance, check if there are applicable updates to the
`GitLab runner image`_. Before starting the update process, check the
`GitLab release notes`_ for upgrading instructions. When upgrading across
multiple GitLab versions, follow the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

Before any changes are applied, run::

	git fetch -all
	git checkout -b gitlab/<yyy-mm-dd> github/develop
	_select dev.gitlab

Stop the GitLab EC2 instance (do not terminate it), and create a snapshot of its
EBS volume. To create a snapshot, run::

	python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py

It may take some time for the snapshot of the volumes to complete, make sure
the ``Snapshot status`` shows ``completed`` within the AWS Console
before proceeding with any changes. Edit 
``terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py``, updating the versions of
the docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop make -C terraform/gitlab

It will necessary to change the ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME`` to the targeted

> deployment's branch name (e.g. ``develop`` or ``prod``) to work around

Reviewer: You would have to be consistent whether you want to define the steps once and mention the necessary adjustments for `prod` OR whether you want to list the steps twice with the adjustment explicitly factored in. I made that call in my previous comment but I just wanted to point the inconsistency out.

``check_branch``.

The GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes. If it takes longer,
contact the lead. When the GitLab endpoint is online, have the lead confirm
that any background migrations triggered by the upgrade have finished.
Background migrations can be found under

> *Admin Area — Monitoring — Background Migrations*.

Reviewer: Premature line break

> Once the ``dev`` GitLab instance has been successfully updated, the same

Reviewer: The steps are different. A different component needs to be selected and no new branch is created. It's not that much text so I think you should be explicit here to avoid confusion.

changes need to be applied to the ``prod`` instance. Once both instances have
been successfully updated, file a PR with the changes against the ``develop``
branch and request review from the lead.

.. _GitLab dev: https://gitlab.dev.singlecell.gi.ucsc.edu/help
.. _GitLab prod: https://gitlab.azul.data.humancellatlas.org/help
.. _GitLab Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-ce/tags
.. _GitLab runner image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-runner/tags
.. _GitLab release notes: https://about.gitlab.com/releases/categories/releases/
.. _GitLab Terraform: https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/blob/develop/terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py#L1064

> .. _upgrade path: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/update/index.html#upgrade-paths

Reviewer: Ideally a link definition should be immediately below the first paragraph that references it.

instance, check if there are applicable updates to the `GitLab runner image`_.
Use the latest runner image whose major and minor version match that of the
GitLab image.

Before starting the update process, check the `GitLab release notes`_ for
upgrading instructions. When upgrading across multiple GitLab versions, follow
the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

.. _GitLab dev: https://gitlab.dev.singlecell.gi.ucsc.edu/help
.. _GitLab Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-ce/tags
.. _GitLab runner image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-runner/tags
.. _GitLab release notes: https://about.gitlab.com/releases/categories/releases/
.. _upgrade path: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/update/index.html#upgrade-paths

Before any changes are applied, run::

	git fetch -all
	git checkout -b gitlab/yyyy-mm-dd github/develop
	_select dev.gitlab

Use the following script to create a snapshot of the storage volume attached to
the GitLab instance. The script will stop (NOT terminate) the instance, and
create a properly tagged snapshot of the GitLab EBS volume. Run::

	python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py

> Once the snapshot is complete, destroy the old GitLab instance, run::

Author: Created https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/issues/4019 to track FIXME.

> 	(cd terraform/gitlab && CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop make plan && terraform destroy -target=aws_instance.gitlab)

Author: To ensure that the operator has the correct .tf files generated from the templates.

> 	(cd terraform/gitlab && CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop make plan && terraform destroy -target=aws_instance.gitlab)

Reviewer: Please use `validate`. If it's not clear as to why, please ask in PL.

Once the instance is destroyed, edit the `GitLab Terraform`_ file, updating the
version of the Docker images for ``gitlab-ce`` and ``gitlab-runner``. Then run::

    CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop make -C terraform/gitlab

.. _GitLab Terraform: https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/blob/develop/terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py#L1243

The new GitLab instance should be online again in 10 minutes. If it takes
longer, contact the lead. When the GitLab web app is online, have the lead
confirm that any background migrations triggered by the upgrade have finished.
Background migrations can be found under *Admin Area — Monitoring — Background
Migrations*.

Once the ``dev`` GitLab instance has been successfully updated, the same

> changes need to be applied to the ``prod`` instance. Use the same branch to
> update the ``prod`` deployment, however the ``prod.gitlab`` component must be
> selected and ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=prod`` must be used in the ``make``
> invocation. Once both instances have been successfully updated, file a PR with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes need to be applied to the ``prod`` instance. Use the same branch to
update the ``prod`` deployment, but select the ``prod.gitlab`` component  and use ``CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=prod`` in all ``make``
invocations. Once both instances have been successfully updated, file a PR with
```

Upgrading GitLab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Operators must check for updates to GitLab on a weekly basis. Compare the
current version of GitLab found at the ``/help`` endpoint for `GitLab dev`_ to
the available releases for the `GitLab Docker image`_. When updating the GitLab
instance, check if there are applicable updates to the `GitLab runner image`_.
Use the latest runner image whose major and minor version match that of the
GitLab image.

Before starting the update process, check the `GitLab release notes`_ for
upgrading instructions. When upgrading across multiple GitLab versions, follow
the prescribed GitLab `upgrade path`_.

.. _GitLab dev: https://gitlab.dev.singlecell.gi.ucsc.edu/help
.. _GitLab Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-ce/tags
.. _GitLab runner image: https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-runner/tags
.. _GitLab release notes: https://about.gitlab.com/releases/categories/releases/
.. _upgrade path: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/update/index.html#upgrade-paths

Before any changes are applied, run::

	git fetch -all

> 	git checkout -b gitlab/yyyy-mm-dd github/develop

Reviewer: The branch name contradicts what's in the the PR checklist.

Please add a checklist for this type of PR.

	python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py

.. FIXME: Should not have to destroy the instance to update

> 		  https://github.com/DataBiosphere/azul/issues/4019

Reviewer: There seems to be a tab in the indent here

Author: Fixed, Note removing the paragraph kinda wrecks the formatting, I used another code-block to keep the #FIXME above the line it refers to. If we want to use one code block the only option is to place the FIXME comment below the line used, RST cant seem to handle the comment in between the RUN:: and the code block.

Once the snapshot is complete, destroy the GitLab instance, run::

	(cd terraform/gitlab && CI_COMMIT_REF_NAME=develop make validate && terraform destroy -target=aws_instance.gitlab)

> Once the instance is destroyed, edit the `GitLab Terraform`_ file, updating the

Reviewer: The FIXME commit should only add the FIXME
